Let's code along together.
So the very first thing
we can do is we can see.
Let us as always start by selecting SVG,
that's select all of our rectangles.
And we bind this data, so we have this
randomly generated array of data.
And we'll pass in our key function.
And as before, we will do a join, but
instead of saying that we
want to join rectangles.
We're going to pass in
the enter selection.
Because what we want to do is we want to
be able to construct rectangles,
create those rectangles.
In the DOM, and then we want to be
able to animate them up.
So let's work through
the logic of those together.
So if we want them to animate
up from here, up to here.
That means, first of all that
we need the y position to be
the bottom of our SVG container.
And so, up here I have our SVG height and
rectangle width that I've hard coded and
so
these are the attributes
to transition from.
And the attr and so
let's start with our height being at
zero since they're all
the way at the bottom.
And we're going to have our y positions
be the bottom of our SVG container.
So that's SVG height.
And, actually,
I think we can just say return this.
We don't do anything to
our update selection.
And for our exit,
we said that we wanted to animate our
bars from wherever they are all
the way down to the bottom.
And actually that means what
we want to do is get our exit
selection, then we're going
to set the transition.
So now everything after
here is transition to
the attributes that we
want to transition to.
So that's why after this
exit dot transition,
we want to transition our
height back down to zero.
And our y position,
back down to the bottom
of our SVG container.
And then we kind of skipped over
kind of like that middle step of
what is our update plus,
sorry enter plus update selection.
And on that one, what we're going to do
is we are going to call transition.
So this is our enter plus
update selection, and so.
What we want to do is we
want to first of all, and
because this includes the enter selection.
I want us to animate from the bottom and
then have a grow up, so
let's have it grow up too.
So, attributes to transition to.
And so we wanted to grow to the height
that is based on our data and
the y position.
That is our SVG height minus our data.
For our height.
So this little position, so
SVG height minus our data.
And if we do this,
we should see, actually,
we also would want to set the width
of each of these rectangles.
And we put that before
the transition dot transition t.
Because we don't want
the width to be animating, so
we do rectangle width and
then we also need to
put in the x position.
And so the x position we want that to be
updating every single
time our data updates.
Because sometimes maybe our
data shifts around in order, so
we want the x position to
be updating every time.
And so that will be,
we're just using the index
to calculate index times
the rectangle widths.
And so we are going to take a look at.
Ooh, look at that.
So there's a small detail that
maybe you notice and that is.
That for
the elements the bars are animating in,
you might notice that it's
animating in from the left.
And that's because we did not set
the X position before the animation.
So we didn't set the X position for
kind of like the stage A.
And so it's defaulting to the svg.
Rectangle elements default
exposition in zero.
So that's why the bar is animating in
from the left when it's been entered.
So to fix that, we want to
adjust our enter selection,
we want to also specify that,
for the X position.
We're going to actually,
Set the x position already so
we are going to have the bars created.
And once it's created we want it to
already be at the x position for
the bar and then we'll have it grow.
And this is kind of
the one place where it's
an exception to the rule
of thumb that I have.
Where the rule of thumb being for
the Enter selection,
I only have reset the static attributes,
the non data dependent attributes.
This is the only exception and
when I want to create the DOM
element with it starting
from a specific attribute.
So as in for this rectangle
I want it to be created with
the x position already attached on it.
And the reason why we don't do it
on the Enter plus update selection,
the reason why we don't do it down here.
Is because if we did that there,
then that means
even on updates, on the update selection,
it will get updated to
the next position right away.
And so it won't have that animation.
And so that's why we want to
set the x attribute here,
and then I'm going to put
in some of our colors.
So that was fill pink stroke.
And our stroke width is 2.
And now if we play around with this,
you can see that the bars are created and
they kinda grow up in the x position.
That's been calculated, so it doesn't
kinda enter in weirdly from the left.
And sometimes, if the same data persists,
you can see that they slide around.
And that the bars that need to be removed,
they are being animated down first and
then removed from the dom.
Yeah, there's our transition exercise, and
hopefully seen this as quite exciting.
And hopefully seen that it
only takes a few more lines of
creating the D3 transition.
And then calling it at some key places,
namely just here and
also here on the enter update
selection and here on the exit selection.
Calling at just those two places and
we get this really kind
of nice animation to show us
how our data is being updated.
So yeah, I think even just that kind of
few lines addition thing gives
us something really powerful.
And of course, this is kind of a lot
of code to fit onto one screen.
So hopefully if you're coding along.
And you haven't captured everything.
I have the solutions to all of our
examples in somewhere near our exercise.
So, in this case,
it is hidden here under this.
Here's what the end result looks like.
And so you can kinda go in and
take a look here.